= Velocity

Provides a barebones, but supremely quick way of querying your ActiveRecord database.

Velocity uses adapter-specific optimizations (only pg, and mysql2 support planned for now) to reduce memory consumption
and processing time **significantly** when working with large amounts of data. This is typically useful in situations like 
reporting or cached web services where you just need quick access to the rows in your database.

For now, this is mostly achieved by avoiding the creation of any Ruby data structures (lazy column and row loading), but
there are plans to use asynchronous queries with perhaps fibres or threads to speed processing up further.

Supported adapters: PostgreSQL

== How to

Include the query module into your ActiveRecord model

  class Foo < ActiveRecord::Base
    include Velocity::Query
  end
  
This adds a .data() method onto your model class. Use this pretty much like the ActiveRecord 3 query interface.

  Foo.data.where(:designation => 'Superfoo').limit(1000).order('name ASC').each do |foo|
    puts foo.title
  end
  
What should immediately apparent is that rather than getting a list of ActiveRecord model instances (i.e. Foo), you get an
iterator object. This object consists of accessor methods reflecting all the fields in your query.

*N.B:* Only simple where(), limit(), order(), group(), and joins() calls are supported.

Using the joins() method essentially results in a LEFT JOIN (in contrast to normal ActiveRecord), and the primary key
of the joined association is automatically selected as foos_id (where foos is your joined table name).

== Debugging

You can inspect the attributes of a row by calling:

  Foo.data.each do |row|
    puts row.inspect
  end
 
  >> #Velocity::MappedRow --> {"id"=>"100759", "some_string_field"=>"Value A"}
 

== Velocity development 

Please copy config/database.sample.yml to config/database.yml and adjust to your system settings.

  > rake test
  
The first time you run the tests a large test database will be created (for the performance tests), so
it is likely to take a very very long time on the first run.
 

== Contributing to velocity
 
* Check out the latest master to make sure the feature hasn't been implemented or the bug hasn't been fixed yet
* Check out the issue tracker to make sure someone already hasn't requested it and/or contributed it
* Fork the project
* Start a feature/bugfix branch
* Commit and push until you are happy with your contribution
* Make sure to add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a future version unintentionally.
* Please try not to mess with the Rakefile, version, or history. If you want to have your own version, or is otherwise necessary, that is fine, but please isolate to its own commit so I can cherry-pick around it.

== License

Copyright (c) 2011 Pascal Houliston

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
"Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND
NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE
LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION
OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION
WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

